

-------------------------------------------------------------------
TalkerOS Supplemental Help Topic:  TALKERS (general)
-------------------------------------------------------------------

Talkers, in general, are programs that allow users on the Internet
to interact and talk with each other.  Many people call places such
as this "chats," but that is a general term.  Most talkers run on
a port--a specific connection at a server.  You connect to these
ports through telnet.  Telnet is a part of the Internet and usually
requires some type of client to connect.  Clients (some complicated
and advanced while others are very simple) can be downloaded FREE
from http://www.shareware.com

When someone connects to a talker, they enter their username and
a password of their choice, which then logs them into the talker
program.  Each user has their own account--usually free, but some
talkers charge money for an accout.  The accounts keep individual
statistics on each user.  You usually are required to perform an
.accreq (account request) where you provide information such as
your email address before an account is issued.  Sometimes you will
be asked to perform some other actions as well as .accreq.





At this time, please take notice that this file is written for
users of NUTS-Based talkers.  NUTS talkers operate *mostly* the
same way and the original code was created by Neil Robertson.
There are many other types of talkers.

Talkers usually consist of many rooms.  You can move around in
NUTS by using the ~FG.go~RS command followed by the room's name.
Rooms allow users to separate themselves to have a private
conversation, for example.  Rooms usually have seperate themes or
settings, to provide users with a choice of "virtual surroundings."

Talkers are also level-based.  That means each user at a talker that
has an account also has a level.  Levels control what commands you
have and what special things you can do.  Some levels give users
limited control over other users.  These levels are called superuser
levels, administration levels, or wiz (short for wizard) levels.
You will start out as a very low level when you first join a talker,
and will move up over time, depending on the requirements.

To perform actions on a talker, you will use commands.  Commands
allow you to look up information (.status and .examine), perform
an action (.think and .emote), and set statistics on yourself
(.desc and .profile).  You can get a list of commands by typing
~FG.help commands~RS on NUTS-based talkers, or ~FG.commands~RS on
TalkerOS-based talkers.

If you have any other questions about the basics of a talker, feel
free to ask an admin (aka wizard) that's currently logged in.  If
one isn't available, try asking anyone else.  Most peole on talkers
are very friendly, and even more-so when you get to know them.
